WELCOME
FINALLY TO THE THURSDAY, AUGUST
17TH TWENTY TWENTY THREE
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
SORRY FOR THE DELAY THERE WE
ARE HAVING SOME TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES BECAUSE THE
MEETING IS BEING HELD IN PERSON
AND ELECTRONICALLY VIA ZOO
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR
OTHER MATTERS MAY DO SO IN
PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO SPEAK
DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE
CALL TWO ZERO SIX THREE THREE
SEVEN NINE SEVEN TWO THREE OR
TOLL FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN ENTER MEETING IDX NINE
SIX FIVE THREE SIX SIX NINE
NINE SEVEN SIX TWO.
I'M SORRY I'M GOING TO PAUSE
FOR A SECOND.
YOU DID SOMETHING CALLED
DISABLE AUDIO OR SOMETHING LIKE
YEAH IF YOU COULD TRY TO DO
THAT TRY TO SEE SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
OH I'M SORRY CLICK ON THE THREE
DOTS BEFORE I SAW THE
DISCONNECT.
GOT IT.
YEAH OK THIS INFORMATION IS
ALSO AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTICES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CHANNEL CTM
CAN BE
FOUND ON XFINITY CHANNEL
SIXTEEN AT&T CHANNEL NINETY
NINE AND STREAMING ONLINE ON
YOUTUBE OR AT A2 GOV DAGGET
WATCH CTM.
WE INTEND TO CONDUCT THIS
HYBRID MEETING SIMILAR
LITERALLY TO AN IN-PERSON
MEETING HOWEVER PLEASE BE
PATIENT IF THERE ARE TECHNICAL
ISSUES AND THANK YOU FOR
ALREADY DEMONSTRATING THAT.
MOVING ON TO ROLL CALL MISS
THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
ROLL COMMISSIONER ROCHLIN HERE
COMMISSIONER ON COMMISSIONER
ROSS PRESENT COMMISSIONER K.A.
HERE COMMISSIONER FERNER HERE
YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU, MISS THATCHER.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE AGENDA AND
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS, CHANGES TO THE
AGENDA TONIGHT?
WITHOUT OBJECTION, THE AGENDA
IS APPROVED AS PRESENTED AND
NOW WE'LL HEAR FROM THE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
TO COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL USING THE INFORMATION
DISPLAYED ON THE MEDIA AGENDA
AND THE VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS ONE BY ONE
USING THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
TO INDICATE YOUR DESIRE TO
SPEAK PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE ON
YOUR PHONE YOU WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING TO SPEAK.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
SO THIS IS WHEN YOU HIT DA
NINE.
WE HAVE NO CALLERS IN THE
ZOOMER.
OK, I DON'T HAVE THE AGENDA
RIGHT IN FRONT OF ME.
DO WE HAVE ANY UNFINISHED
BUSINESS?
NO, NO.
GREAT.
SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
HEARINGS AND WE WILL START WITH
ONE TWENTY TWO THAT'S AT ONE
ONE TWENTY TWO S SEVENTH STREET
.
TAKE IT AWAY MR. THERE'S TWO
AND A HALF STOREY GABLE CENTER
FEATURES CORNER RETURNS AND A
FULL WITH BRICK FRONT PORCH WAS
FIRST OCCUPIED IN NINETEEN 05
BY WILLIAM ALBOR A MACHINIST.
THE HOMEOWNER HAS BEEN STEADILY
WORKING ON THE HOUSE AND GARAGE
AND HAS RECEIVED STAFF
APPROVALS FOR GARAGE REPAIRS,
REPLACEMENT OF NON ORIGINAL
WINDOWS FENCING AND NEW WOOD
STORM WINDOWS.
ON MARCH 13, 2014, THE FCC
APPROVED INSTALLATION OF THREE
SKYLIGHTS AND A REPLACEMENT
DOOR IN TWO THOUSAND NINETEEN
THE D.C. APPROVED REPLACEMENT
OF A CRAWL SPACE AND TWENTY
TWENTY.
THE WIDENING OF A BASEMENT
WINDOW SITS ON SEVENTH STREET,
THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF WEST
WASHINGTON STREET.
I'M GOING TO WALK YOU THROUGH
SOME PICTURES HERE.
THIS IS THE CORNER OF THE HOUSE
NOTE THAT SEE DO I HAVE A
POINTER THERE?
YES, I DO SEE HOW THERE IS A
CURB ON THE CORNER HERE.
I'M GOING TO SHOW YOU THAT
FIRST WHEN THE CITY PUT IN
BETTER ACCESSIBLE RAMPS FOR
SIDEWALKS ON CORNERS THEY
INSTALLED THIS CURBING THE
CEMENT CURBING AND PART OF THE
APPLICATION IS REQUEST TO
EXTEND THAT CURBING THE REST
OF THE WAY ALONG THE TWO STREET
FRONTAGES.
THIS IS AT THE CORNER OF 7TH
AND WEST WASHINGTON.
YOU CAN SEE IT GOES ABOUT
HALFWAY THIS WAY GOES ABOUT
HALF WAY THE OTHER WAY.
THIS IS THE OTHER SIDE.
THIS IS THE FRONT DOOR ON 7TH
STREET.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THEY'RE TRYING
TO USE SOME ROCKS THERE TO HOLD
BACK SOIL WHICH SEEMS TO HAVE A
PERPETUAL EROSION PROBLEM AND
THIS IS THE REST OF THE 7TH
STREET FRONTAGE WHICH IS JUST
LOOKS LIKE A BUNCH OF TO MISS
HOLDING THINGS TOGETHER.
NEXT WE'LL TAKE A LITTLE WALK
AROUND THE HOUSE HERE WE ARE
GOING UP THE FRONT STEPS.
THERE'S QUITE A BIT OF OF
HARDSCAPE WORK PROPOSED HERE
AND I'LL SHOW YOU WHAT THAT IS
IN JUST A SEC.
BUT THIS IS JUST YOUR STANDARD
POURED CONCRETE STEPS AND
WALKWAYS.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE FRONT
STEPS ARE IN A LITTLE BIT ROUGH
SHAPE.
GOT SOME CRACKS GOING AROUND ON
THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE SCREEN
HERE THERE'S A WALK PROPOSED
OFF THIS FRONT SIDEWALK TO BE
ADDED.
IT'S THE ONLY NEW IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE AND IT WOULD GO AROUND
THE CORNER OF THE HOUSE RIGHT
IN THE FOREGROUND THERE AND IT
WOULD GO ROUND THE SIDE OF THE
HOUSE AND LEAD TO AN EXISTING
BACK PATIO THAT WAS SEVERAL
YEARS AGO AS WAS THIS COOL SHED
HERE IN THE SIDE YOU CAN SEE
THIS IS LOOKING BACK TOWARDS
7TH STREET HAS THE SHED ON THE
LEFT YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S
STONE SLABS CURRENTLY BLUESTONE
TYPE PATIO HERE THAT'S PROPOSED
TO BE REPLACED WITH PAVERS, A
MORE FORMAL DESIGN THAT MATCH
THE THE BRICK PAVERS THAT ARE
IN THE DRIVEWAY CURRENTLY SHOW
YOU THOSE IN A MINUTE.
SO IT'S A PRETTY LARGE PATIO
HERE IN THE BACK YOU'LL SEE
THAT THERE'S A WALL THERE'S A
RETAINING WALL.
IT'S VERY RUSTIC.
I MIGHT HAVE A BETTER PICTURE.
I MIGHT NOT GOING AROUND TWO
SIDES BUT HERE THAT'S PROPOSED
TO BE REPLACED WITH SOMETHING
THAT'S A LITTLE STRAIGHTER AND
THE STEPS ARE PROPOSED TO BE
REPLACED WITH PABEY PATIO
PAVERS.
SEE THESE ARE THE PAVERS ON THE
DRIVEWAY.
THEY'RE JUST YOU KNOW, THEY'RE
THEY'RE THEY'RE STRAIGHT UP.
I DON'T KNOW THE DESIGN OR
ANYTHING.
IT DOESN'T MATTER.
THEY HAVE NICE ROUNDED CORNERS.
THEY'RE THEY'RE VERY SMOOTH AND
WELL LAID THERE.
BUT HERE WE'RE ON THE
WASHINGTON SIDE OF THE HOUSE
AND WE GO BACK TO THE STONE
PATIO AND THEY WOULD ALSO LIKE
TO REPLACE ALL OF THIS STONE IN
THE SAME EXTENT WITH PAVERS
THAT MATCH THE DRIVEWAY PAVERS
.
THERE'S ALSO SOME WORK PROPOSED
ON THIS REAR PORCH, THE DECKING
AND THE ROOF AND EVERYTHING
STAYS THE SAME.
BUT THESE METAL COLUMNS WOULD
BE REPLACED WITH WOOD ONES.
THIS IS JUST A COUPLE MORE
PICTURES.
YOU CAN SEE THE DRIVEWAY PAVERS
HERE OFF IN THE DISTANCE THAT
WOULD MATCH WHAT'S NEW ON ALL
OF THE PATIOS AND WALKS HERE
THE THE PORCH COLUMNS VINTAGE I
DON'T KNOW, 50S OR 60S PROBABLY
THEY WOULD BE REPLACED THIS
STONE STEP WOULD BE REPLACED
WITH A MORE FORMAL STEP.
THIS IS THE THE ALL THE
PROPOSALS THIS IS THE PATIO WE
JUST LEFT.
THERE'S OTHER WORK ASSOCIATED
WITH THESE PATIOS TOO.
THERE'S A LOW LATTICE FENCE
THAT'LL SHOW YOU IN A MINUTE
THAT GOES AROUND THE FRONT AS A
SCREEN TO WEST WASHINGTON
STREET AND THERE'S A SMALL
TRELLIS HERE OVER THOSE STEPS
DOWN TO WEST WASHINGTON STREET.
THIS IS THE PORCH THERE'S A
SCREEN PRIVACY SCREEN LATTICE
PROPOSED ON THIS END AND ALL
OF THESE ARE ALREADY HERE.
THEY STAY THE SAME AND HERE
WE'VE GOT THE MORE FORMALIZED
STEPS TO THE THE PATIO IN THE
BACK.
ALSO A NEW LARGER TRELLIS HERE,
A COUPLE OF DECORATIVE SCREENS
ALONG THE SIDE YARD LINE AND
THIS IS THE NEW IMPERVIOUS
SURFACE AND THESE ARE REPLACED
PAVEMENT AND THERE'S A LITTLE
GATE HERE ALSO THIS IS ANOTHER
VERSION OF THAT THAT MAY BE
EASIER TO LOOK AT OR NOT WITH
SOME PHOTOS PROVIDED BY THE
APPLICANTS.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE THE STAIRS
ARE A LITTLE CRISPER.
THEY'RE NOT JUST POURED
CONCRETE ANYMORE AND THERE ARE
DETAILS PROVIDED ON THE LATTICE
SCREEN ON THE PORCH THIS THIS
VIEW IS SIDEWAYS.
THIS WINDOW IS A HORIZONTAL
WINDOW.
SO TURN YOUR HEAD TO THE LEFT
AND YOU'LL SEE THAT THERE IS A
LITTLE BIT OF THAT.
CHAMPARAN THANK YOU.
ON ABOUT THE TOP FOOT HERE ON
THE FOUR PORCH POSTS THAT WOULD
BE THE COLUMNS THAT WOULD BE
HERE TO THIS CORNER AND THEN
ONE BACK HERE.
OK, THESE 3-D RENDERINGS THIS
IS A LOT OF LITTLE STUFF BUT IT
ALL ADDS UP AND THESE
RENDERINGS ARE INCREDIBLY
HELPFUL TO UNDERSTANDING ALL
THAT.
SO HERE WE'VE GOT THE NEW PORCH
POST AND LADDER SCREEN.
WE'VE GOT THE NEW LITTLE
TRELLIS.
THIS IS LEADING DOWN TO WEST
WASHINGTON STREET NEW PRIVACY
FENCE ALONG THE EDGE AND
THERE'S THE THE NEW PATIO
SURFACE THAT MATCHES THE
DRIVEWAY.
THE STEPS HERE STAY THE SAME
GOING DOWN TO WEST WASHINGTON
AND THIS IS THE VIEW FROM WEST
WASHINGTON.
HERE IS THE SCREEN AND THE NEW
PORCH POSTS.
IT'S A SIMILAR DESIGN
COMPATIBLE TO MATCH THE FENCES
.
THIS IS JUST ANOTHER VIEW
OF THAT FROM THE DRIVEWAY WE'VE
GOT THIS IS NOW WE'VE GONE DOWN
FROM THE DRIVEWAY TO THE BACK
PATIO.
THIS IS THE NEW LOW RETAINING
WALL, NEW DECORATIVE SCREENING
,SORT OF A MINI PERGOLA
STRUCTURE AND NOW WE'RE LOOKING
OUT TOWARD 75TH STREET.
THIS IS THE SHED THIS IS THE
NEW BIG TRELLIS AND YOU SEE A
LITTLE PIECE OF LATTICE HERE
THAT'S TO SCREEN THE AIR
CONDITIONING UNIT FROM VIEW.
OOPS, SORRY.
WRONG ONE.
THIS IS THE NEW WALKWAY LEADING
BACK TO THE NEW TRELLIS AND
WE'RE BACK AROUND TO THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE WHERE WE HAVE NEW
STAIRS AND PAVERS AND GATE IS
THE WALL NEW TO THE THE WALL IS
YES.
SO GO BACK OH THIS WALL BACK
YEAH.
YEAH THAT'S THE THE MORE RUSTIC
LOOKING ONE RIGHT NOW THAT'S
IT'S THERE RIGHT NOW BUT IT'S
BEING REPLACED WITH A MORE
GEOMETRIC ANGULAR ONE
OF STRAIGHT LINES YOU CAN SEE
HERE THAT THERE'S SOME SORT
OF DECORATIVE CURBING HERE BY
THE FRONT WALK AND THEN IT GOES
TO A CONCRETE CURB ACROSS THE
SEVENTH STREET SIDE OF THE LOT
AND THE SAME IS TRUE ON THE
OTHER SIDE WITH THE CONCRETE
CURVING EXTENDING
.
SO MOVING ON TO THE SECRETARY
INTERIOR STANDARDS THAT APPLY
NUMBER TWO IN TEN TO SAYS THEY
START CHARACTER OR PROPERTY
WILL BE RETAINED AND PRESERVED
THE REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURES, FEATURES, SPACES
AND SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
AVOIDED.
NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS IN
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR'S
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITES
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGN NEW
EXTERIOR ADDITIONS OR NEW
CONSTRUCTION WHICH IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE SITE WHICH
PRESERVED THE HISTORIC
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN A BUILDING
OR BUILDINGS.
LANDSCAPE FEATURES AN OPEN
SPACE FROM THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTIAL
DECKS AND PATIOS.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO INSTALL A
PATIO FLUSH WITH TRADE USING
STONE BRICK PAVERS ARE CONCRETE
AND TO ENSURE THAT A DECK OR
PATIO DRAINS AWAY FROM THE
HISTORIC RESOURCE.
LET ME MAKE SURE THAT MISS
ANYTHING.
LET'S SEE.
STAFF DOES THINK THAT ALL
OF THIS WORK IS APPROPRIATE.
IT WILL THE CURBING WILL FIX
SOME EROSION PROBLEMS.
THE THE PAVERS BEING CONSISTENT
IT'S PAVERS OR PAVERS WHETHER
IT'S STONE OR IT'S BRICK OR
WHATEVER IT IS.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT'S REALLY
BEING SUBSTANTIALLY CHANGED AS
TO FORM EXCEPT FOR MAYBE THE
ADDITIONS OF THE TRELLISES
WHICH I THINK ARE APPROPRIATE.
WE DID CHECK WITH THE OWNER AT
THE SITE VISIT.
THEY ARE ALL WOOD AND AS ARE
THE THE THE LATTICE FENCE
PIECES.
SO YEAH, STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. ARCHER.
OK, SO NOW WE HAVE COMMISSIONER
ROSS WAS ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
WILL YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REPORT?
CERTAINLY SO I DO AGREE WITH
STAFFS CHARACTERIZED PORTION
OF THE PROPOSAL SO ONE THING TO
NOTE IS THAT THE BUILDING KIND
OF SITS ON A HILL SO A LOT
OF THE HARDSCAPE THAT'S
PROPOSED YOU CAN'T REALLY EVEN
SEE FROM THE STREET IN MY KIND
OF INITIAL IMPRESSION WAS LIKE
WOW, THAT'S A LOT OF HARDSCAPE
BUT PER THE THATCHER THE ONLY
NEW HARDSCAPE THAT'S GOING TO
BE ADDED IS A WALKWAY THAT'S
KIND OF CURVING AROUND THE SIDE
OF THE HOUSE TO THE BACK PATIO.
SO IT'S JUST REALLY A
FORMALIZATION OF THE MORE KIND
OF ORGANIC STONE ELEMENTS AT
THE BACK PATIO AS WELL AS
TOWARDS THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
THE THE EXCUSE ME.
SO THE MIDDLE COLUMNS THAT ARE
HERE THAT ARE PROPOSED FOR
REMOVAL ALSO ARE NOT STOCKAGE
AND ACTUALLY GOING TO DETRACT
FROM THE HISTORIC CHARACTER THE
HOUSE.
SO THE NEW WOOD COLUMNS
ACTUALLY WELL, I THINK THE MORE
COMPATIBLE SO GENERALLY
SPEAKING IT APPEARS TO BE AN
APPROPRIATE PROJECT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, SO NOW WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE COME FORWARD PROVIDE
YOUR YEAH.
COME FORWARD, PROVIDE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD YOU
HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK AND JUST WONDERING IF YOU
HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE
STAFF REPORT OR COMMENT ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE OR DAVID ONE
TWENTY TWO THOUSAND SEVEN
NOTHING FURTHER THAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
JUST ONE SEC COMMISSIONERS HAVE
ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT.
YOU'RE VERY GOOD.
OK OK THANK YOU.
OK, I'D LIKE TO NOW OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THIS
APPLICATION AT ONE TWENTY TWO S
SEVENTH STREET WE HAVE ANY
CALLERS WE HAVE NO CALLERS.
VERY GOOD.
I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THE
APPLICATION.
WOULD ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION QUESTIONNAIRE FOR I
MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE
A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATE
ASK FOR THE APPLICATION AT ONE
TWENTY TWO S SEVEN STREET THE
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO INSTALL A DECORATIVE SCREEN
FENCE NEAR THE NORTH FLAT LINE
INSTALL FORTY FEET LATTICE
FENCE IN SEVERAL LOCATIONS
INCLUDING LATTICE GATES AND AN
AIR CONDITIONER SCREEN INSTALL
EXCUSE 40 INCHES INSTALL A NEW
OR WALK FROM THE FRONT PORCH
STEPS TO THE PATIO ON THE NORTH
SIDE YARD REPLACE THE PAPER
MATERIAL ON AN EXISTING PATIO
AND PORCH TO MATCH THE DRIVEWAY
AND REPLACE EXISTING STEPS WITH
BLUESTONE INSTALL TWO WOOD
WOODCARVERS REPLACE METAL PORCH
POSTS WITH NEW SQUARE WOOD
POSTS AND A LATTICE SCREEN ON
THE WEST END AND EXTEND THE
SIDEWALK CURBS FROM THE CORNER
OF THE LOT OUTWARD AS PROPOSED
.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO INTEN AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE
AND THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
PATIO'S SUPPORT.
THANK YOU.
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
FORTNER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER KEONI.
DO WE HAVE A DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
ANY COMMENTS FROM ANYONE
BESIDES COMMISSIONER?
I THINK THAT'S BECAUSE IT'S WAS
PRESENTED VERY WELL AND
EXPLAINED THE SITE ISSUES FROM
COMMISSIONER ROSS.
I THINK WHAT WE'VE HEARD IS
THERE'S THERE'S NO HISTORIC
MATERIALS BEING REMOVED WHICH
WHICH MAKES THINGS VERY CLEAR
TO US HERE AND WHAT IS BEING
PROPOSED IS BOTH COMPATIBLE
WITH THIS SITE AND NEIGHBORHOOD
AND ALSO REMOVEABLE I WILL LIKE
TO SAY AGAIN THANK YOU FOR
THOSE RENDERINGS.
THERE WAS A LOT TO TAKE IN IN
THAT APPLICATION AND REALLY
HAVING ALL THOSE JUST REALLY
EXPERT INCREDIBLE IMAGES HELPED
US A LOT.
I THINK SO THANK YOU FOR ANY
FURTHER DISCUSSION DOES NOT
LOOK LIKE IT.
SO WE WILL GO TO VOTE ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
OK THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
YES OK WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO
TWO TO GO TO S7 JUST ACROSS A
STREET
OK GET IN THERE ONE
MOMENT PLEASE
TO THE ALL RIGHT
TWO OR TWO S SEVENTH STREET IS
A DISTINCTIVE TWO STOREY GABLE
FRONT DOOR THAT FIRST APPEARS
IN PARK CITY DIRECTORIES IN
1894 AS THE SOLE STEINMEYER
HOME FEATURES A STONE
FOUNDATION WITH FRONT PORCH TO
OVER TWO WINDOWS WITH OPERABLE
SHUTTERS AND DECORATIVE TRIM ON
THE WINDOW.
HOOD'S GARAGE APPEARS ON
NINETEEN TWENTY FIVE SANBORN'S
BUT NOT NINETEEN SIXTEEN AND ON
AUGUST 13TH TWENTY TWENTY AN
APPLICATION TO ALTER THE GARAGE
DOORS WAS APPROVED BY THE DC.
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING
APPROVAL TO REMOVE A PANTRY AND
SHED ATTACHED TO THE REAR
OF THE HOUSE APPARENTLY WITHOUT
PERMITS OR HGC APPROVAL THEY
WOULD BE REPLACED WITH AN EIGHT
FOOT BY TEN FOOT TEN INCH
MUDROOM EDITION RIGHT HERE WE
HAVE THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE IN
THE GARAGE WITH ITS STELLAR NEW
DOORS USED TO BE TWO PAIRS
OF WEAF DOORS AND NOW THE TWO
IN THE MIDDLE SLIDE BEHIND THE
FIXED OUTER DOORS.
SO THERE'S ONLY ONE OPENING BUT
THEY TOOK OUT THE CENTER
SUPPORT POST SO NOW YOU CAN
COMFORTABLY GET A WHOLE CAR IN
INSTEAD OF TWO UGO'S ON EITHER
SIDE FRONT OF THE PORCH.
THIS IS THIS IS AN EXTREMELY
LOVELY HOUSE.
IT'S GOT SO MUCH HISTORIC
CHARACTER.
I'VE ALWAYS APPRECIATED THAT
IT'S THERE ON THE CORNER.
THIS IS THE BACK THOUGH.
WHAT'S GOING ON HERE IS A
STRANGE MUDROOM AND A STRANGE
SORT OF WOOD SHED LEANING UP
AGAINST IT.
THIS IS THE ONLY MODERN EDITION
THE HOUSE THIS IS A SUN PORCH
THAT WAS ADDED I DON'T KNOW 30
THIRTY 30 YEARS AGO MAYBE AND
THIS IS AN ORIGINAL REAR WING
OF THE HOUSE.
I'M NOT SURE ABOUT THAT PORCH
BUT I'M GUESSING IT'S PROBABLY
FROM THE DATE OF THIS VERY
EARLY REAR EDITION AND UP HERE
THERE'S A VERY OLD CHIMNEY POT
AND I'M HEARING MORE ABOUT THE
CHIMNEY IN A MINUTE.
SO THE PROPOSAL IS TO RIP OFF
THIS LEAN TO YOU CAN SEE HERE
THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
IT'S JUST A VERY SIMPLE
STRUCTURE LEANING UP AGAINST
THERE HERE IT IS FROM THE
STREET.
THIS IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE THE
NEW MUDROOM IS PROPOSED IN THE
SAME LOCATION A LITTLE BIT
DEEPER BUT MUCH MORE
APPROPRIATE DESIGN.
AND HERE'S THE INTERIOR OF THE
CHIMNEY.
YOU KNOW HOW
WE'RE ALWAYS
ASKING PEOPLE TO KEEP THEIR
CHIMNEYS ON THE EXTERIOR?
I GOT REALLY KICKED OUT WHEN I
SAW THIS.
I HAD TO TAKE A PICTURE.
IT'S BASIC.
HE JUST HELD UP BY A SHELF IN
THE KITCHEN.
THIS DOESN'T HAVE TO BE IN THE
KITCHEN.
IT COULD BE UP IN THE ATTIC OR
SOMEPLACE LIKE THAT.
THAT'S A LITTLE LESS
CONSPICUOUS.
SO I THINK THIS IS VERY COOL.
BUT THEY WERE ABLE TO KEEP THE
EXTERIOR APPEARANCE OF THEIR
AWESOME CHIMNEY IN THIS WAY.
SO HERE WE'VE GOT SITE PLAN.
HERE'S THE SUN ROOM ADDITIONS
DOWN HERE THAT I SHOWED YOU.
THIS IS THE EXISTING MUDROOM I
THINK YOU SEE BETTER IN THE
NEXT ONE.
YEAH.
SO THE OLD MUDROOM GOES ACROSS
HERE AND THEN YOU'VE GOT THE
SHED OVER HERE.
THOSE WOULD ALL GO AWAY.
NEW MUDROOM IS IS INSET EIGHT
INCHES FROM THE CORNER WHICH IS
MUCH MORE APPROPRIATE AND IT IS
TEN FEET TEN INCHES DEEP NOT
EXCESSIVE EIGHT FEET WIDE AND
THIS SPACE WILL JUST BE EMPTY
SPACE FOR NOW AND THE LITTLE
PORCH LEADING UP AND DOWN INTO
THE SUNROOM WILL JUST STAY
THERE.
SIDE ELEVATION FACING WEST
WASHINGTON SIMPLE DESIGN,
COMPATIBLE CLADDING.
THE TRIM DOESN'T MATCH EXACTLY
BUT IT'S VERY COMPATIBLE.
IT ISN'T ALL WOOD PELA DOUBLE
HUNG WINDOW THE THE FOUNDATION
SAYS TEXTURE BLOCK.
I HAD A CONVERSATION WITH THE
BUILDERS ONE OF WHOM WAS HERE
TONIGHT AND CONFIRMED THAT THIS
WILL BE TRADITIONAL QUMU WITH
OR WITHOUT A COAT .
I THINK I PUT THAT IN THE
MOTION AND THAT TEXTURED BLOCK
BECAUSE THAT'S TRADITIONALLY I
MEAN THAT'S A VERY MODERN
TREATMENT SO WE'RE TRYING TO
STAY AWAY FROM THAT.
BUT HERE AND CONFIRM THAT
THAT'S FINE.
LITTLE ENTRY PORCH IN THE BACK
HERE IT IS IN THE BACK.
IT'S A TINY LITTLE ROOM HAS A
SKYLIGHT MAYBE
THIS IS THE
OTHER SIDE.
IT'S GOT A HORIZONTAL WINDOW SO
YOU CAN DO THINGS UNDERNEATH IT
ALL VERY COMPATIBLE.
GOT SOME LATTICE SCREENING ON
THE BASE OF THE ENTRY PORCH.
THERE WERE GOOD PHOTOS PROVIDED
IN THE APPLICATION.
YOU CAN SEE THE EXISTING WINDOW
HAS THOSE COOL HOODS WITH THIS
LITTLE CUTOUT AND THOSE
SHUTTERS ARE INCREDIBLE SECTOR
INTERIOR STANDARD.
NO ONE SAYS A PROPERTY WILL BE
USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR
GIVEN A NEW USE THAT REQUIRES
MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS, FEATURE
SPACES AND SPECIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
I READ NUMBER TWO TO YOU
ALREADY NUMBER FIVE DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS FEATURES, FINISHES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES ARE
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED AND NO.9 SAYS NEW
ADDITIONS, EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS
OR NEW CONSTRUCTION WILL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERS PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK WILL BE
DIFFERENTIATED THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSING SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
AND I'VE ALREADY READ TO NUMBER
10 SO HEADING BACK UP THE
PROPOSED MUDROOM IS EIGHTY
SEVEN SQUARE FEET WHICH IS
NEGLIGIBLE COMPARED TO THE
FOOTPRINT AND FLOOR AREA OF THE
HOUSE.
CLADDING IS FIVE AND A HALF
INCH CEDAR SIDING THAT'S A
LITTLE BIT WIDER THAN THE FOUR
AND A HALF INCH EXPOSURE SIDING
ON THE HISTORIC HOUSE WHICH IS
GOOD NEWS .
YOUR DOOR IS A WOOD WITH A FULL
LIGHT ONE OVER ONE AND AWNING
WINDOWS ARE WOOD PILLARS AND
THE PROPORTIONS ARE
APPROPRIATE.
THE ROOF PITCH MATCHES THE
PITCH OF THE REAR WING WHICH IS
APPRECIATED.
STAFF BELIEVES THE ADDITION IS
VERY COMPATIBLE WITH THE STORK
HOUSE WORK MEETS THE STANDARDS
AND GUIDELINES.
THANK YOU.
WELL THANK YOU VERY MUCH MISS
THATCHER.
MR ROSS WAS ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
WOULD YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
REPORT?
CERTAINLY SO IT'S ONCE AGAIN
NOTING THAT STAFF DID A REALLY
GOOD JOB OF CHARACTER
CHARACTERIZING THE SITUATION.
SO JUST NOTING THAT SO WE DID
HAVE SOME DISCUSSION IN THE
FIELD AROUND LIKE WHAT'S THE
AGE OF THIS KIND OF WEIRD
LITTLE TOO WEIRD LITTLE
ADDITIONS AT THE REAR STAFF DID
NOTE THAT THERE'S AN AREA THAT
SHOWED THAT THE TWO LITTLE KIND
OF WEIRD CARBUNCLES WERE
ERECTED AFTER THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE AFTER POST
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE.
THEY WERE INTERESTING BUT
CLEARLY NOT UNCONDITIONED SPACE
.
I MEAN LITTLE MORE THAN A LEAN
TO NOT CONTRIBUTING AT ALL TO
THE BUILDING.
SO I DO AGREE WITH STAFF ON THE
FACT THAT IT IS NOT CHARACTER
DEFINING THE ADDITION AS
PROPOSED.
I COMMEND THE OPINION IN TERMS
OF MAKING IT VERY SMALL.
IT'S COMPATIBLE IN DESIGN TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDING AND
OVERALL REALLY GOOD PROPOSAL.
I CAN'T SEE IT FROM THE STREET.
YEAH, PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK NOW WOULD THE APPLICANT
PLEASE STEP FORWARD?
OH GREAT.
SO PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AND JUST LET US KNOW IF
YOU'VE GOT ANYTHING TO ADD FROM
WHAT YOU'VE HEARD SO FROM RON
COX I'M ACTUALLY WITH ALFA
DESIGN BUILD WITH THE GC FOR
TWO OR TWO S.
S SEVENTH STREET SO I'M KIND
OF HERE REPRESENTING THE OWNER.
GOOD.
NO IDEA WHAT YOU GUYS TALKED
ABOUT.
THAT'S KIND OF WHAT WE'RE DOING
.
LIKE JENNIFER SAID, IT'S KIND
OF A PIECE OF JUNK THAT WE'RE
GOING TO TAKE DOWN BUT
SOMETHING A LOT NICER UP SO
WE'RE PRETTY EXCITED ABOUT IT.
VERY NICE.
DO ANY OF THE COMMISSIONERS
HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
YEAH, OK.
THE AREA IT'S GOING TO BE WHEN
YOU TAKE OFF THAT LEAN TO THING
IS THAT ALL THAT ORIGINAL
MATERIAL STILL THERE THAT'S
GOING TO BE EXPOSED?
YEAH, MOST OF IT IS THE KIND
OF ATTACHED TO THE TO THE
SIDING SO THERE MIGHT BE SOME
REPAIRS WE HAVE TO DO.
BUT MOST EVEN IF YOU LOOK AT
ONE OF THE PICTURES I THINK
SHOWED THE SIDING STILL ON THE
HOUSE.
YEAH.
RON, I WAS WONDERING DO YOU
KNOW WHAT THE MATERIALS YOU'RE
PROPOSING FOR THAT YOU'VE GOT
THE ADDITIONS AND THEN THE BACK
LITTLE STAIR.
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT THE GUARDRAIL
,THE BALUSTRADE, THE DECKING
AND THE STEPS WE HAVE WE
HAVEN'T REALLY DEFINED THAT.
I GUESS I WAS KIND OF CURIOUS
OF WHAT WE WOULD NEED TO DO OR
WHAT YOU'D WANT TO SEE.
WE HAVEN'T REALLY DEFINE WHAT
WE WANT TO DO THERE.
OK, WHEN YOU DO THAT NEEDS TO
BE PRESENTED TO JILL AND THEN
OK, SHE CAN HELP YOU WITH
WHAT'S BEEN APPROVED IN THE
PAST AND THAT KIND OF THING.
OK, PERFECT.
VERY GOOD.
AND I SAY THAT APPROPRIATELY OR
YEP.
GOOD ENOUGH OK ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT.
OK THANK YOU VERY MUCH LIKE YOU
OK SO NOW I'D LIKE TO OPEN A
PUBLIC HEARING ON THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSON TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS APPLICATION
.
PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE MADE BY
CALLING IN USING THE
INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON THE
AGENDA AND VIDEO FEED.
THIS IS THE TIME TO
ELECTRONICALLY RAISE YOUR HAND
BY HITTING STAR NINE.
WE GOT NO ONE VERY GOOD.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS
APPLICATION WAS APPROVED.
VERY GOOD.
HEARD.
IS THAT A THUMBS UP FROM THE
HOUSE HERE?
OK, WHAT ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE
TO MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION COMMISSIONER PLEASE
SIR.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUED A CERTIFICATE
APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TWO OR TWO S 7TH
STREET, THE CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REPLACE A
MODERN PANTRY AND SHED WITH A
MUDROOM ADDITION ON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITION THAT A
SMOOTH CONCRETE MASONRY UNIT
WITH SOUNDS WITHOUT A PARTICLE
WITH WITH OR WITHOUT WITH OR
WITHOUT A PROJECT ARE USED FOR
THE FOUNDATION.
THE WORK IS CONDITIONED IS
COMPATIBLE FOR NEXT YEAR A
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REST OF THE BUILDING THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION AND
GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATING
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE, TWO,
FIVE, NINE AND TEN AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS IN
BUILDING SITE AND THE ANAMBRA
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS.
SECOND VERY GOOD THAT WAS MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER KIYONO AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ROSS
AND I'M WONDERING IF THERE'S
ANY DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
I JUST APPRECIATE THE CONCISE
KIND OF CLEANUP OF THAT PART
OF THIS PROPERTY CAN BRING IT
ALL UP TO A SIMILAR LEVEL SO
THANK YOU.
I WISH I REMEMBER EXACTLY WHAT
THE APPLICANT SAID BUT WHATEVER
YOU SAID ABOUT REMOVING
WHATEVER AREA THAT I THINK SUMS
IT UP FOR WHAT WE'RE ALL IT
SEEMS LIKE WE'RE ALL THINKING
HERE OK AND I WOULD I WOULD
AGREE WITH MAYBE ONE MORE TIME
I'M SORRY SO I JUST HAD A
QUESTION ACTUALLY TO MISS
THATCHER JUST FOR CLARIFICATION
.
SO FOR THE DO FOR THE STEPS
BOUCHERIE CETERA C YOU WOULD BE
LOOKING TOWARDS STAFF APPROVING
SOMETHING IN LIKE A WOOD OR
TREX TYPE OR A COMPOSITED IF
YOU'LL LET ME PULL THAT UP
AGAIN I MEAN I GUESS A NON
Y'KNOW SO YOU KNOW THIS IS A
PERFECTLY APPROPRIATE DESIGN.
IT'S VERY SIMPLE IF IT COMES
BUILDING PERMIT WITH WOOD HOW
IT'S DONE IT'S FINE.
IF I WOULDN'T RECOMMEND THAT
YOU COME IN FOR TRUCKS SITS
RIGHT ON WEST WASHINGTON
IF
THIS WERE IF THIS WERE A TRUE
BACKYARD WITHOUT A SIDE STREET
THEN I THINK THAT TRUCKS WOULD
BE VERY APPROPRIATE HERE.
BUT I THINK THAT WHAT IS THE
APPROPRIATE MATERIAL TO USE AND
QUITE FRANKLY I JUST ASSUMED
THAT THAT'S WHAT IT WAS AND IT
LOOKS LIKE WOOD BUT IT WASN'T
CALLED OUT.
SO IT'S THREE AND A HALF TO THE
MOTION.
YES.
YEAH.
SHOULD WE JUST JUST BE WOOD
THAT'S EASY.
CLEAN IT.
YEAH.
WITH A HAMMER.
WELL SAME THING WITH A HAMMER.
YEAH YEAH.
OK YEAH I MEAN YOU MADE A
STATEMENT CERTAIN HOW MUCH DO I
NEED TO BE.
YOU DON'T NEED TO READ IT.
JUST TELL US WHERE YOU'RE
INSERTING AND THEN TALK ABOUT
I
THINK AFTER FOUNDATION AND
WE'LL ADD AND THAT THE NEW
THOSE STAIR LANDING COMPONENTS
ON THE REAR WILL BE IN WOOD IN
THE GARDEN AND THE BATHROOM AND
ALSO THE NEW STAIR AND LEARNING
AND GUARDRAIL ARE GOOD.
YEAH SOUNDS THANK YOU.
THANKS.
YOU GET THAT.
OK SO YOU GOT THE MOTION OF I
SAY DID YOU HEAR WHAT WE ADDED
THERE FOR YOUR ANY OTHER
COMMENTS WE WE WILL VOTE HERE
OK WELL LET'S GO TO A VOTE THEN
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES YES YES
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NOW THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED
PLEASE NOTE YOU HAVE TO APPLY
FOR REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT OK WE'RE GOING TO MOVE
ON TO THE NEXT HEARING BUT WE
BEFORE WE DO I AM GOING TO
EXCUSE MYSELF TO RECUSE MYSELF
.
IS IT OK?
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
AND I'M GOING TO HAND THE GAVEL
OVER TO COMMISSIONER.
ALL RIGHT.
YOU'RE GOOD RIGHT THERE OK?
YEAH YEAH I THINK YEAH THE
CAMERA SOUNDS GOOD.
JUST ONE MOMENT PLEASE.
PROFESSOR
I CAN'T HEAR US
EXCEPT ON THIS PHONE RIGHT.
ALL RIGHT.
WANT ME TO.
ARE YOU READY.
YES OK.
OK YES.
WE ARE NOW MOVING ON TO ITEM F
THREE FIVE THIRTY SIX SIXTH
STREET AND MISS THATCHER WILL
YOU PLEASE GIVE THE STAFF
REPORT THIS TO STORY GABAL
FRONTIER FEATURES WIDE
FREEBOARD TRIM CLAPBOARD SIDING
A STONE FOUNDATION AND MORE
CLAPBOARD SIDING HOUSE APPEARS
IN THE NINETY FOUR CITY
DIRECTORY AS THE HOME OF GEORGE
J.
WELKER CARPENTER AND VARIOUS
WELKER'S LIVED IN THE HOUSE
UNTIL 1911 WHEN MRS KATHERINE
VALKYR IS LISTED.
ITS ADDRESS PRIOR TO EIGHTEEN
NINETY EIGHT WAS FOURTEEN SIXTH
STREET.
THE SECTION OF SIXTH STREET
DOES NOT APPEAR ON SANDBORN
MAPS UNTIL NINETEEN THIRTY ONE
WHEN THE HOUSE IS FOOTPRINT
APPEARED AS IT DOES TODAY WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF THE RARE SUN
PORCH THAT TIME THERE WAS A
SINGLE CAR GARAGE IN ROUGHLY
THE LOCATION OF THE CURRENT TWO
CAR GARAGE.
IT'S NOT KNOWN WHETHER THE
SLIGHTLY UNUSUAL MANSARD ROOF
ON THE FRONT PORCH IS ORIGINAL
TO THE HOUSE OR LATER ADDITIONS
OR MODIFICATION A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATE CNIS FOR A TWO
STORY REAR EDITION WAS GRANTED
IN 2010 AND THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING APPROVAL TO REPLACE A
MODERN REAR PORCH ON THE HOUSE
.
YEAH I GUESS MAKE EXTENSIVE
GARAGE REPAIRS, ADD A SMALL
ADDITION TO THE REAR OF THE
GARAGE AND TO BUILD A NEW
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STUDIO
BEHIND THE GARAGE.
ALL RIGHT.
WALKING AROUND THE HOUSE, THE
GARAGE TO BE REFURBISHED NEARLY
REPLACED IS THERE ON THE LEFT
IT HAS A LOW FLAT ROOF THAT
PITCHES TO THE BACK.
YOU CAN SEE SUNROOM ADDITIONS.
YOU CAN SEE THE SUNROOM
ADDITIONS FROM 2010 BACK HERE
THERE'S A THERE'S A LITTLE
PORCH WITH CUTOFFS ON EITHER
SIDE MAKING IT LIKE A HALF A
HEXAGON THAT WOULD BE REMOVED
IN ORDER TO FACILITATE
CONSTRUCTION AND IT'S MODERN
ANYWAY AND IT WOULD BE PUT BACK
WITH JUST SOMETHING MORE
RECTANGULAR.
THE GARAGE RIGHT NOW HAS HAS
SIDING IT GOES BY MANY
DIFFERENT NAMES BUT I'LL SHOW
YOU IN A SECOND.
I'VE ALWAYS CALLED IT GERMAN
SIDING UNDERNEATH ALL OF THIS
PLYWOOD THE GARAGE DOORS ARE IN
POOR SHAPE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT'S JUST
PLYWOOD AND RIGHT OVER THE TOP
OF THE SIDING THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF WINDOWS THAT WINDOW
I'LL SHOW YOU A COUPLE OF CLOSE
UPS OF IT WAS IT WAS CUT IN
LATER.
IT'S NOT ORIGINAL OF THE
STRUCTURE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THOSE ARE JUST
SORT OF HOME HAND BUILT WINDOWS
ARE JUST FIXED HERE THEY ARE
FROM THE INSIDE YOU CAN SEE
SORT OF YOU CAN SEE IT BETTER
WHEN YOU'RE THERE THAT ALL
OF THIS FRAMING IS NEW.
SO THIS WINDOW WAS ADDED AT
SOME POINT LATER THAN WHEN THE
GARAGE WAS BUILT.
THIS IS THE REAR THEY HAVE LOST
A PIECE OF THE ROOF AND IT IS
INSIDE THE THERE'S A THIS IS A
VERY LARGE LOT THIS IS AN
ORIGINAL SPLATTED LOT.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF SPACE.
THEY'VE GONE TO GREAT PAINS TO
WORK AROUND THIS VERY LARGE
TREE IN THE MIDDLE OF THEIR
BACKYARD AND IMPACT AS LITTLE
AS POSSIBLE WITH THE PROPOSED
WORK THERE IS A SMALL ADDITION
PROPOSED OUT THE BACK OF THIS
GARAGE.
IT WOULDN'T BE ANY TALLER AND
IT WOULD HAVE ALSO HAVE NEARLY
FLAT ROOF THAT WOULD SLOPE'S
SLIGHTLY TO THE SIDE.
SO WATER WILL BE COMING DOWN
AND THEN THE NEW ROOF AND IT
WOULD GO OFF AND DRAIN TO THE
SIDE OF THE HOUSE.
THIS IS A VIEW FROM THE OTHER
SIDE OF THAT TREE LOOKING
TOWARD THE NEIGHBORS.
YOU CAN SEE THE NEIGHBORS
GARAGES HERE.
THIS WAS AN ADDITION THAT THE
HGC APPROVED PROBABLY FIVE OR
SIX YEARS AGO.
THE PROPOSED NEW BUILDING WOULD
GO I THINK IT'S A LITTLE BIT
BEHIND WHERE THIS GARAGE IS
SITTING NOW AND YOU'LL SEE THAT
ON THE PLANNED VIEW IN THE
SECOND JUST A SHOT OF THE
INSIDE OF THE GARAGE.
THE BUILDER WAS AT THE SITE
VISIT FOR THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
AND IS HOPING TO ACTUALLY SAVE
A LOT OF THE FRAMING OF THE
BUILDING.
MOST OF THE OTHER MATERIALS ARE
PRETTY SEVERELY COMPROMISED.
CLEARLY THE ROOF PHOTOS FROM
THE APPLICATION HERE YOU CAN
SEE THEY'VE DONE SOME SOME WORK
HERE.
THEY'VE PULLED OFF SOME BOARDS
TO SEE WHAT WAS UNDERNEATH THIS
IS THAT SIDING AND LO AND
BEHOLD IT'S STILL AVAILABLE.
YOU CAN YOU CAN STILL BUY IT.
IT'S GOT A LITTLE RABBIT DOWN
HERE.
SO IT'S LIKE A IT'S A DOUBLE
SLAP LOOK ON A SHAPED BOARD AND
THIS IS A PIECE THAT THEY
PEELED OFF SO YOU CAN SEE THAT
THE PROFILE STILL MATCHES VERY
CLOSELY SEVERAL NAMES WASHBOARD
DOUBLE TEARDROP DOUBLE OG
WATERFALL BOSTON KLINKER AND
I'VE ALWAYS CALLED IT GERMAN.
OK, HERE'S THE EXISTING LAYOUT
.
HERE'S THE BIG TREE EXISTING
GARAGE BRICK PATIO, THE LANDING
AND STAIRS.
KEEP IN MIND THAT THIS THE
FRONT OF THE GARAGE IS ALMOST
70 FEET FROM THE STREET.
THIS IS A VERY DEEP LOT SO THE
NEW PROPOSED BUILDING IS GOING
TO BE ANOTHER THIRTY PLUS FEET
BEHIND THE FRONT OF THE GARAGE.
EXISTING DRAWINGS ARE ALL
INCLUDED.
OK, NOW WE SHOW THE GARAGE WITH
THE ADDITION.
THE ADDITION IS NOT VERY BIG.
THERE'S A PATIO IN BETWEEN.
THERE'LL BE SOME SLIDING DOORS
ON THE BACK OF THE ADDITION SO
YOU COULD WALK THROUGH TO THE
PATIO AND THEN THE NEW STUDIO
BUILDING IS JUST A SINGLE FLOOR
HAS A BATHROOM.
YOU KNOW, LITTLE LITTLE ARCH
PATIO WHEN I HEAR LEADING OUT
ONTO THE SHARED PATIO BETWEEN
THESE TWO BUILDINGS, STUDIO IS
REALLY A STUDIO.
IT'S GOT ROOM FOR A DESK AND A
COUCH AND A BATH.
THERE'S THE ROOF PLAN THAT I
MENTIONED BEFORE STEPPING DOWN
SLOPING TO THE SIDE AND THE NEW
BUILDING ALSO CLOSE TO THE
SIDE.
SO THERE'S THERE'S A COMPARISON
OF THE HEIGHT TEN FOOT TEN ON
THE EXISTING BUILDING, 14 FOOT
FOUR ON THE PROPOSED WOULD HAVE
NEW WOOD OVERHEAD GARAGE DOORS
THAT MATCH THE EXISTING
REPLACED SIDING NEW ROOF AND
THE ADDITION HAS WIDER CITING
THE OTHER SIDE THE WINDOWS ON
THE SIDE FACING THE NEIGHBOR'S
SLIDING OVER A DOOR ON THE BACK
AND THIS IS THE THESE ARE THE
STUDIO DOORS THAT FACE THE
GARAGE.
THIS IS THE SIDE THAT FACES THE
BIG MAPLE TREE, THE BACKYARD
MUST BE THE BACK
COUPLE
OF SECTION DRAWINGS.
THERE'S NO NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN
AREA DOES SHOW THIS GARAGE
SO
NINETEEN THIRTY ONE SHOWED A
SINGLE CAR GARAGE SO WE DON'T
KNOW THE EXACT DATE
OF CONSTRUCTION BUT SINCE WE
DON'T KNOW THAT WE'RE PRESUMING
THAT IT WAS NINETEEN FORTY FOUR
EARLIER SINCE SO LITTLE
CONSTRUCTION WENT ON DURING
WORLD WAR TWO HERE'S A GOOD
PERSPECTIVE DRAWING OF THE
GARAGE WITH THE STUDIO BEHIND
IT IT'LL BE A LITTLE VISIBLE
BUT STAFF DOES THINK THAT IT'S
VERY COMPATIBLE AND PRETTY LOW
KEY AND KEEPING THAT GARAGE
THERE IS GREAT.
HERE'S THE NEW STEPS THAT WOULD
BE REBUILT WITH A SLIGHTLY
ENLARGED PORCH RENDERING
.
OK, SO ACCORDING TO YOUR
STANDARDS I HAVE READ TO YOU
NUMBERS TWO, FIVE, NINE AND TEN
FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
CONSTRUCT NEW ADDITIONS IF
THERE'S THE LEAST POSSIBLE LOSS
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES ARE
NOT OBSCURED, DAMAGED OR
DESTROYED ALSO RECOMMENDED TO
LOCATE THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
EDITION AT THE REAR OR AN
INCONSPICUOUS SIDE OF A
HISTORIC BUILDING AND TO DESIGN
NEW ADDITIONS IN A MANNER THAT
IT CLEAR WHAT IS HISTORIC AND
WHAT IS NEW.
AND I THINK THAT THIS DESIGN ON
THE BACK OF THE GARAGE
ACCOMPLISHES THIS FROM THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
LOCATE A REQUIRED EDITION ON
THE LEASE CHARACTER DEFINING
ELEVATION AND KEEPING IT
SUBORDINATE IN VOLUME TO THE
HISTORIC BUILDING FOR
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES, IT'S APPROPRIATE TO
MAINTAIN AND RESTORE HISTORIC
BURNS, GARAGES, SHEDS,
TRELLISES AND ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES TO MATCH THE
HISTORIC MATERIALS AND
CONFIGURATION WHICH THEY'VE
DONE VERY FAITHFULLY FOR
ADDITIONS.
IT'S APPROPRIATE TO LOCATE IT
WITHIN OH TO LOCATE AN ADDITION
WITHIN A NEW DETACHED ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE LOCATED TO THE REAR
OF A PRIMARY HISTORIC STRUCTURE
SO MEANING INSTEAD OF ADDING AN
ADDITION OUT OF THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE INSTEAD PUT IT IN A
STANDALONE SECONDARY BUILDING.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S MY FAVORITE FROM LET'S
SEE WHAT I HAVE TO ADD
.
THE PROPOSED EDITION ON THE
REAR OF THE GARAGE IS TWENTY
NINE PERCENT OF THE FLOOR AREA
AND FOOTPRINT OF THE GARAGE
CLADDING ON THE GARAGE EDITION
IS FIVE INCH REVEAL FIBER
CEMENT CLAPBOARD WHICH IS WIDER
THAN THE HISTORIC SIDING THE
NEW STUDIO BUILDING THE
FOOTPRINT IS ALIGNED WITH THE
GARAGE AND MATCHES ITS WIDTH
STAFFS NOT OVERLY CONCERNED
ABOUT THE HEIGHT DISCREPANCY
BECAUSE THE STUDIO IS OVER
FORTY TWO FEET FROM THE FRONT
OF THE GARAGE THE ROOF WILL BE
VISIBLE FROM THE STREET BUT NOT
LOOMING OR INAPPROPRIATELY
LARGE PATIO SEPARATES THE TWO
AND THE SIZE AND PLACEMENT THE
REAR CORNER OF THE LADDER
APPROPRIATE THE NEIGHBORS
GARAGE TO THE SOUTH BUFFER'S
THE NEW STRUCTURE FROM THE
NEIGHBOR'S YARD AND VIEW STUDIO
MATERIALS INCLUDE FIBER CEMENT
CLAPBOARD SIDING WITH FIVE INCH
REVEAL FIBER CEMENT BOARD TRIM
CMU BLOCK FOUNDATION WITH A
PLASTER PARG RUBBER ROOFING AND
NO GUTTERS ARE DOWNSPOUTS DUE
TO THE LARGE MAPLE TREE NEARBY
NEW WINDOWS ARE ALUMINUM CLAD
FROM MARVIN AS IS THE BIFOLD
PATIO DOOR.
THE NEW LANDING ON THE SOUTH
SIDE OF THE HOUSE IS SIMPLE,
SMALL AND AN APPROPRIATE DESIGN
THAT MEETS THE DESIGN
GUIDELINES AND STAFF BELIEVES
THAT ALL OF THIS WORK IS
APPROPRIATE AND MEETS THE
FEDERAL AND CITY DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
THANK YOU.
THANKS ARTHUR.
COMMISSIONER ROSS, WHO'S ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
COULD YOU PLEASE GIVE US YOUR
IMPORTANT RECOMMENDATION?
CERTAINLY SO ONCE AGAIN I DO
CONFER WITH STAFF
CHARACTERIZATION OF THE PROJECT
.
SO LOOKING AT THE GARAGE IT
DOES APPEAR TO BE CHARACTER
WORK CONTRIBUTED TO THE
DISTRICT TO THE SITE.
WE DID GO INTO THE GARAGE AND
IT'S A REALLY ROUGH SHAPE.
SO CLEARLY I MEAN THE ROOF IS
CAVED IN.
WE PULLED OFF JUST IN JUST
SEVERAL AREAS, JUST KIND
OF PULLED OFF THE PLYWOOD
SIDING TO LOOK AT THE HISTORIC
SIDING UNDERNEATH IS PRETTY
CHEWED UP IN THE APPLICANT DID
NOTE THAT THEY DO INTEND TO
ONCE THEY PULL OFF THE PLYWOOD
SIDING IF IT LOOKS LIKE THIS OR
EXCITING CAN BE KEPT AND
REPAIRED THAT THEY WOULD LOOK
TO DO THAT.
IF NOT, THEN THEY WOULD MATCH
IT SO THE PROPOSAL DOES A
REALLY GOOD JOB AROUND DOING A
REALLY FAITHFUL REPAIR OF THE
STORE GARAGE.
THE ADDITION TO THE GARAGE ALSO
PER STATURES REPORT IT'S SMALL
LITTLE KIND OF BUMPINESS.
IT'S CLEAR THAT IT'S NEW SO THE
SCALE OF THE MATERIAL IS IN
KEEPING WITH THIS SORT HERE TO
THE GARAGE TO THE HOUSE AND
THEN THE NEXT ONCE AGAIN IT'S
VERY SMALL SCALE PUSH REALLY
FAR BACK ON THE LOT AND IS
COMPATIBLE WITH THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE IN THE
GARAGE.
SO I DID I MEAN I REALLY DID
APPRECIATE THE FACT THAT RATHER
THAN JUST ADDING AN ADDITION TO
THE ACTUAL HOUSE, THE THE CAT
CHOSE TO JUST PUT A SMALL
REASONABLY PAWPAWS ADDITION ON
THE GARAGE AND THEN ADDING UP
THE STUDIO SO THAT THEY CAN
ACCOMMODATE THEIR NEEDS WITHOUT
DIRECTLY IMPACTING THE HISTORIC
HOUSE.
SO OVERALL I THOUGHT IT WAS A
REALLY WELL THOUGHT OUT WELL
DESIGN PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU WITH THE APPLICANT
PLEASE UNMUTED OR MICROPHONE
TURN ON YOUR VIDEO OF POSSIBLE
WRITE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS FOR
THE RECORD YOU HAVE UP TO FIVE
MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU'D LIKE
TO ADD ANYTHING TO THE STAFF
REPORT OR THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT GIVE IT ONE SECOND HERE
I AM PROMOTING EVAN HALL TO BE
A PANELIST.
OK, EVAN IF YOU'RE THERE YOU
CAN ER WE GO AREAS LIKE AREA
YOU ARE YES YEAH I THAT'S ALL I
IS READING AND I WAS WEARING
ONE HUNDRED AS I UNDERSTAND
THAT THE OWNER ARCHITECT
PATRICK THANK YOU FOR WEARING
HIS MULTICLASS.
>> NO PROBLEM.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD TO
THE REPORTS THAT WERE GIVEN.
NO I THOUGHT IT WAS INCREDIBLY
THOROUGH.
I AGREE WITH THE DESIGN SUPPORT
AND DOESN'T APPEAR TO BE
LOOMING AT ALL.
SO THAT WAS MY MAJOR CONCERN.
BUT IT LOOKS GOOD.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH,
COMMISSIONER.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANTS REP SEEING NONE?
NO.
OK, THANK YOU EVAN.
I'D LIKE TO NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS APPLICATION
AT FIVE THIRTY SIX SIXTH
STREET.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS?
WE DO NOT HAVE ANY ADDITIONAL
GUESTS.
OK AND SEEING NONE IN PERSON I
WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THIS
APPLICATION.
WHAT COMMISSIONER I'D LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION FOR THE
COMMISSIONER US TAKE ME A
LITTLE I'M DOING IT FOR MY
PHONE.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE THREE SIX
SIX THREE ATTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT IN
ADDITION TO THE REAR ELEVATION
OF THE GARAGE AND TO CONSTRUCT
AN ADDITIONAL ACCESSORY
BUILDING BEHIND THE GARAGE AS
PROPOSED.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING AND START
BUILDINGS AND PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO FIVE NINE AND 10
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AS WELL AS THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES IN PARTICULAR THE
GUIDELINES AUDITIONS IN
RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES SECOND ON THE MOTION
SECOND ALL RIGHT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER ROSS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER.
>> ANY DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION
POSITION AND I GUESS I'M JUST
RESTATING THE FACT THAT I DO
APPRECIATE THE RESTRAINT.
I WOULD SAY THAT THE APPLICANT
AND THE DESIGNER ARE SHOWN FOR
THIS PROPOSAL FOR THE ADDITION
AS WELL AS THE THE NEW
ACCESSORY BUILDING AND I THINK
IT'S COMPATIBLE WITH THE
HISTORIC CHARACTER OF THE
PROPERTY.
I TEND TO AGREE IT IS VERY WELL
COMPOSED SERIES OF NEW ELEMENTS
ON THE PROPERTY AND A WELL
COMPOSED APPLICATION THAT WAS
VERY CLEARLY PRESENTED AND VERY
HELPFUL.
IT SEEMS LIKE ALL THE
APPLICATIONS THAT WERE CLEARLY
PRESENTED AND THE IMAGE THAT'S
STILL UP ON THE SCREEN I THINK
FROM THE PRESENTATION WOULD BE
POSSIBLY THE ONE ITEM IN
QUESTION OF THIS NEW STRUCTURE
IN THE BACK.
BUT THE SCALE AND MASSING
OF THE NEW CONSTRUCTION OF THE
DETACHED POSITION IS IS SO FAR
SET BACK OR SCALE IS COMPATIBLE
WITH THE PROPERTY AND IT'S SO
FAR SET BACK THAT I DON'T THINK
IT'LL REALLY IMPEDE ON THE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES AT
ALL IN PROPERTY.
HAVING SAID ALL THOSE COMMENTS,
ARE WE READY TO VOTE FOR THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION SAY YES,
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY
NO.
MOTION CARRIES YOUR APPLICATION
HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MUST APPLY
FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM
THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
OK THANKS IVAN.
BRAVO.
GOOD TO SEE EVERYONE.
>> YES, OUR FORMER CHAIR.
>> ALL RIGHT SO ON.
HI THANKS
TO RETRIEVE IT PLEASE
COME TO I'M SURE
I'M VERY
THANKFUL THAT ON A NIGHT
OF TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES WE'VE
GOT THREE GREAT CLEAR
STRAIGHTFORWARD THINGS MAKES
EVERYTHING EASIER, BALANCES
THAT OUT
.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THAT WAS THE LAST HEARING
AND SO NOW WE'RE GOING TO GO ON
TO NEW BUSINESS.
OH, AND THERE IS NO NEW
BUSINESS CORRECT.
>> SO WE'LL GO ON TO THE NEXT
PORTION OF THE MEETING WHICH IS
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES AND WE
HAVE JUST VERY RECENTLY GOT TWO
TWO MINUTES EMAILED TO US JUST
BEFORE THE MEETING FOR THE
MINUTES BEFORE THE MEETING.
SO YEAH, I DON'T KNOW IF
ANYONE'S HAD A TIME.
I HAD THE CHANCE TO LOOK AT IT
BUT THEY'RE FROM JUNE AND JULY
.
IS THERE ANY RUSH TO APPROVE
THE MINUTES?
NO.
YOU GUYS SHOULD TAKE A LOOK AT
THEM FIRST.
ALL RIGHT.
APPRECIATE THEM.
THEY DON'T SPOIL OR SOMETHING.
OK, SO I THINK WE SHOULD MAYBE
PAUSE BECAUSE I'M SURE NO ONE'S
HAD A CHANCE TO LOOK AT THEM.
SO WE'LL WE'LL DEAL WITH WITH
JUNE JULY AND MAYBE AUGUST NEXT
MONTH.
VERY GOOD.
SOUNDS GOOD.
OK, SO NEXT WE'LL DEAL WITH
REPORTS FROM COMMISSIONERS IF
ANYONE HAS A REPORT THAT WOULD
BE THE TIME TO DO IT.
I'M NOT SEEING ANY REPORTS.
>> SO THEN WE'VE GOT
ASSIGNMENTS AND THE REVIEW
REVIEW COMMITTEE FOR NEXT MONTH
WILL BE ON SEPTEMBER 11 AT 5PM
I CAN DO ANYTHING IS SO THEY'RE
STILL AT FIVE SO THE FIVE PM
ARE RAISING THEIR HAND AND
WE'VE GOT ONE OF THE ANYTOWN
FOR BOTH THE REVIEW AND THE
MEETING.
OK, OK SO THAT'S GOOD TO KNOW.
HOPEFULLY NOBODY HAS TO RECUSE
THEMSELVES LATER.
YEAH.
OH HOLD IT.
>> SORRY NOT ME.
NO NO CATHY SEPTEMBER
COMMISSIONER ROSS HOW DID YOU
RAISE YOUR HAND BUT NOW I'M
SEEING A SKEPTICAL I THINK THAT
IS LEAVING TOWN ON THE ON THE
14TH I MEAN ONE SECOND I'M
SORRY I SHOULD GO.
YEAH YEAH.
OH OH I'M SORRY
.
PERHAPS COMMISSIONER CALDERON
CAN DO IT.
I CAN ASK
OH I KNOW I CAN I'M
SORRY WE'RE PAUSED HERE.
>> YEAH.
DO YOU HAVE ANY UPDATES ON THE
UNFILED MISSIONER SEATS?
THERE ARE STILL TWO UNFILLED
COMMISSIONER.
OK ALL RIGHT.
I HEARD A RUMOR ON TV LAND OF A
FILL BUT I GUESS IT DIDN'T
HAPPEN.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
YEAH SO TWO TWO SEATS TO SEE WE
HAD TO SET A BECOMING A CONCERN
THAT COMMISSION IS ARE YOU JUST
HAVING A DIFFICULT LIKE IS THIS
AN UNUSUALLY DIFFICULT I MEAN
WE DID HAVE THREE OPENINGS AT
ONCE.
IT'S UNUSUAL TO HAVE THREE
OPENINGS AT ONCE AND WE'VE HAD
SOME APPLICATIONS THAT HAVE NOT
GONE FORWARD TO CITY COUNCIL.
SO I GUESS WE'RE STILL LOOKING
FOR NEW APPLICATIONS AT THIS
POINT.
OK, AND IF ANYONE WANTS TO DO
ANY MARKETING, PLEASE FEEL
FREE.
YEAH, OK OK OK I APOLOGIZE BUT
I WILL BE OUT OF TOWN FOR THE
MEETING FOR THE MEETING SO
WE'VE GOT TO YES.
SO WE'LL ONLY HAVE SO EVERY AT
THE MOST SHOWS UP WHICH IS FINE
WHICH IS FINE YEAH.
YEAH YEP.
ALL RIGHT OK OK NO COFFEE NO
CHANCE BUT NOW WE NEED TWO
OF THE THREE TO RAISE THEIR
HAND TO TO BE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE BACK TO THAT PLACE
THE TWO OF THEM ARE HERE ARE
HEMMING AND HAWING AND NOT
VOLUNTEERING SO MAYBE YOU HAVE
TO GET BACK TO US.
YEAH I'LL SEE WHAT I SEE WHAT
YOU CAN DO BOTH OF YOU I MEAN
DO DO I HAVE I CAN'T I JUST
CAN'T SAY YES OR OH YOU JUST
DON'T HAVE OK OK.
IT'S CLEAR THAT THERE'S
SOMETHING GOING ON AT THAT
EXACT MOMENT BUT I DON'T KNOW
OK I'M GOING TO I'M RESPONSIBLE
FOR THAT.
I'M GOING TO SEND THE THREE
OF YOU AN EMAIL.
YEAH.
AND ASK FOR VOLUNTEERS.
THANK YOU.
>> OK WE WILL MOVE ON TO
REPORTS FROM STAFF IF THERE ARE
ANY REPORTS FROM STAFF NO.
>> OK AND THEN NOW WE'RE ON TO
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS.
>> NO EL I HAD A QUESTION THAT
CAME INTO MY MIND AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE MEETING HERE
WHEN WE WERE HAVING THOSE
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES AND WE
LOGGED INTO ZOOME AND I JUST I
GUESS I WANT A CLARIFICATION
FROM STAFF HERE ABOUT THE
PUBLIC OR THE YOU KNOW, WHOEVER
WANTS TO KIND OF WATCH THIS.
I KNOW THEY HAVE OPTIONS.
THEY CAN COME HERE, THEY CAN GO
ON THE TV, THEY CAN GO ON
YOUTUBE, THEY CAN GO ON THE ON
THE WEBSITE.
NOW THERE'S THE ZOOM MEETING.
IS THERE THE IDEA THAT THE
PUBLIC SHOULD BE ABLE TO ACCESS
THE ZOOM OR IF THEY WANT TO
PARTICIPATE THEY CAN WATCH AND
THEN CALLED IN?
IS THERE IS THERE ANY IDEA THAT
THE PUBLIC SHOULD BE ABLE TO
ACTUALLY LOG IN TO THE ZOOM
ITSELF LIKE WE ALL LOGGED INTO
THE ROOM TONIGHT?
YEAH, I'M WONDERING ABOUT THAT
ONLY BECAUSE WE NEEDED THE
PASSCODE FOR THE LINK.
SO THE LINK HAS THE PASSCODE
EMBEDDED.
RIGHT.
THE EMAIL THAT GOES OUT TO
APPLICANTS HAS ALL THAT
INFORMATION RIGHT BECAUSE WE
NEED TO SEE THEM RIGHT.
BUT THE AGENDA ITSELF WE ONLY
DISPLAY THE MEETING AT AND AND
THAT'S INTENTIONAL, RIGHT?
>> BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT JUST
ANYONE TO ZOOM.
YES.
OR WHATEVER THAT'S THAT'S A
CITY POLICY.
OK, YEAH.
SO SO THE PUBLIC THEN IF THEY
WANT TO PARTICIPATE ACTIVELY
THEY SHOULD BE EXPECTED TO CALL
IN TO THE ZOO.
YEAH OK.
YEAH AND THEN IT'S THE
APPLICANTS THAT WOULD ACTUALLY
BE LOGGED IN OR I DON'T KNOW
THE DIFFERENT BUT ZOOMED IN
CALLED OK.
RIGHT RIGHT RIGHT EXACTLY.
SO THEN I GUESS WHY DO WE
PUBLISH THE THE THE MEETING ID
OF THE ZUN ARE YOU ASKED FOR
THE MEETING ID WHEN YOU CALL IN
MAYBE I THINK YOU THERE WE GO
OK YEAH WHEN YOU CALL IN I
HAVEN'T TRIED IT IN A LONG TIME
BUT CLEARLY PEOPLE IN THE
MEETING I D THAT IT KNOWS WHICH
MEETING YOU'RE TRYING TO GET
PEOPLE WE'VE HAD MANY PEOPLE
ACTUALLY CALLING IN AND
PARTICIPATING SO THAT SEEMS TO
BE WORKING FINE.
YEP.
AND AS LONG AS THERE'S OTHER
WAYS OBVIOUSLY FOR THE PUBLIC
TO WATCH THEN WE SEEM TO BE
COVERED .
YEAH I REALLY APPRECIATED
HAVING ZOOME ON MY LAPTOP.
YEAH.
ACTUALLY WORKED REALLY WELL FOR
ME.
SO TONIGHT DESPITE OUR
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES THE
PUBLIC SAW EVERYTHING THAT THEY
NORMALLY SEE BECAUSE SEATON IS
BROADCASTING THE THE THE SLIDES
THE ONLY PEOPLE AFFECTED BY MY
INABILITY TO LOG IN AT THE THE
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS PODIUM
WAS THAT YOU ALL CAN'T SEE
THESE LITTLE SCREENS.
OK, THANK YOU ALL FOR BRINGING
YOUR PERSONAL LAPTOPS AND IPADS
.
I WOULD RECOMMEND YOU DO THAT
IN THE FUTURE.
YEAH WE CAN BUDDY UP IF I WANT
TO USE THIS HAPPENS AGAIN IN
CASE IT SOUNDS AGAIN.
I MEAN IT PROBABLY I MEAN
LIGHTNING NEVER STRIKES TWICE
IN THE SAME LOCATION RIGHT.
SO TRUE.
SO YES I GUESS I JUST THOUGHT
ABOUT QUESTIONS GENERALLY
SPEAKING SO NOT I MEAN
OBVIOUSLY POSTING MEETINGS ON
ZOOME IT'S BEEN A GREAT THING
IN TERMS OF THE PUBLIC EXCEPT
HAVING ACCESS TO OUR MEETINGS.
BUT DO YOU THINK THERE'S EVER
GOING TO BE A TIME WHEN IT'S IS
GOING TO BE STRICTLY IN PERSON
OR IS IT FROM HENCEFORTH WE'RE
GOING TO BE ZUMAN PERSON?
NO WAY OF KNOWING OK YEAH
THAT'S PRETTY MUCH UP TO CITY
COUNCIL THIS POINT I BELIEVE
AND I THINK THAT THEY LIKE THE
ACCESSIBILITY.
>> I KNOW THE PLANNING
COMMISSION APPRECIATES IT AS
WELL.
>> YEAH, I THINK EVERYBODY
AGREES THAT IT HAS MADE IT MUCH
MORE ACCESSIBLE.
FOLKS AT HOME WE WE HAVEN'T HAD
A CONTROVERSIAL PROJECT IN A
WHILE SO WE HAVEN'T YOU KNOW,
HAD BIG BACKLOGS OF CALLERS ON
ZOOME AND MANY MORE PEOPLE ARE
COMING IN PERSON THAT FEEL MORE
COMFORTABLE DOING THAT.
BUT IT'S IT'S IT'S GREAT TO
KEEP THE OPTION.
I HOPE THAT I'VE HEARD NOTHING
ABOUT
GETTING RID OF IT AND
GOING ENTIRELY IN PERSON AGAIN.
SO HOPEFULLY IT'S HERE TO STAY
GOOD.
VERY GOOD.
ANY OTHER CONCERNS?
OK, DO WE HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS?
NO.
OK, VERY GOOD.
IN THAT CASE WE'RE ONTO
ADJOURNMENT AND I NOW ADJOURN
THE AUGUST 17TH TWENTY TWENTY
THREE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION MEETING.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
I'M DON.
>> THANKS JESS.
YOU'RE WELCOME.